# movies_omdb
The main principle of the backend is when the system works first time, it gets the required movie data and stores it into database and when a user getss access to the related endpoint, system runs the database query, gets the wanted data from the local database and presents it on the web url.

Before starting to develop backend side, I get a free access key of ombd api. The OMDB api provides search for movies by their titels and filter it by the year of release. The response of searching does not include the required information, keys, like director of the movie and plot. The way to access these keys is calling up the api seperately for each movie by using title parameter. So, the solution is to filter the movies first by their title and year, and put the response in a map function and call up the api for each movie by using title parameter to obtain movie details. I have used axios and express modules while developing backend side of this project. I prefered to use mongodb as database.

Explanation for the file structure of backend:In controller folder are the js files in which the endpoints are defined. In service folder are the js files that calls functions from repository files, get the data from them and run operational functions with that data in need. In repository folder are the js files that database queries are made. In utils folder the js files exists that keep the functions that I write to keep the other js files short and organized. Lastly unit tests are written in index.test.js file.

On the frontend side, there is a simple one-page design with a searchbar ,a search button and movie list. There will be no movie shown until users make a search. When they make a search, system gets the data from the endpoint which is designed on backend side, and shows the movie list on the page. I have used bootstrap to and axios. While developing frontend side, I divided the whole page design into small components as much as possible to keep the codes organized and more readable. The project is a test driven development work.
